." Manpage for effz.
." Contact olegskor@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.

.TH effz 1 "28 Mar 2018" "version 0.1" "effz man page"

.SH NAME
effz - calculate the observable characteristics of multi\-electron atoms

.SH SYNOPSIS
effz [FORMAT_STRING]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ABOUT EFFECTIVE CHARGE METHOD

Every atom of the periodic table is characterized with the effective charge
z_eff, which is used as a free parameter in the hydrogen like wave
functions.  Since the basis is complete and orthogonal it allows one to
construct regular perturbation theory.  The fully analytical zeroth-order
approximation provides a good accuracy of about 5% for observable
characteristics for the whole periodic table.  Thus it can completely
substitute the Thomas-Fermi model.

.B RESULTS OF THE COMPUTATION.

Provided the format string, the program computes for all charges Z1, Z2, ...
corresponding characteristics.  Thus yielding num_of_charges *
num_of_occupation_numbers values, by default the values are output to the
screen.

.SH OPTIONS
.B FORMAT STRING HELP

In order to perform computation the parameters should be given in a form of
a format string.

The format string can be specified in the file or in the standard input,
i.e., terminal window or in the interactive mode of a program.

The format string looks like:

	-z Z1, Z2, ...  -f OCC_NUMS_FORMAT -v OCC_NUMS1, OCC_NUMS2, ...;
	REPEAT_FORMAT_STRING

.B EXPLANATION

-z specifies the charges.  All arguments except of Z1 are optional.  Z1,
Z2, ...  are numbers.

-f specifies the format of the occupation numbers and can be one of the
following n, N, i, O, o for more information read
.B OCCUPATION NUMBER FORMAT
help.

-v specifies the occupation numbers in the format OCC_NUMS_FORMAT.  All
arguments except of OCC_NUMS1 are optional.

The semicolon at the end separates format strings, since multiple strings
can be provided.  All format strings except of the first one are optional.

If to the format string before the ; the flag -o is provided (**will be
released as of version 0.1.x**) with a file path, i.e.,

	-z Z1, Z2, ...  -f OCC_NUMS_FORMAT -v OCC_NUMS1, OCC_NUMS2, ...
	-o PATH_TO_OUTPUT_FILE;

then the output is saved into the file.

.B OCCUPATION NUMBERS FORMAT HELP

Occupation numbers are specified in one of the following formats:

n --- numerical format, e.g., 5 using occupation numbers of the B element.

N --- named format, e.g.  He using occupation numbers of the He element.

i --- ionization format, i.e., element name + roman number.  e.g.  Ne II.
This means occupation numbers for Ne minus 1 electron.

O --- occupation numbers and an element name format i.e., element name +
{{n,l,m,ms}}, e.g.  B {{2,1,0,1}} or B {{2,1,0,1},{2,1,1,-1}}.  Note: more
than two internal brackets are possible.  In this case we take Boron
occupation numbers and append the corresponding occupation numbers in
brackets.

o --- a set of occupation numbers format e.g.  {{1,0,0,1},{1,0,0,-1}}

.B IMPORTANT
: If there are identical occupation numbers present the energy is equal to
zero.

.B IMPORTANT
: The occupation numbers are sorted in the order of increasing n, l, m, ms.
This means that we fill m form -l to l and ms from -1 to 1.

.SH BUGS
At the moment the effz program can not either save or read from files.
Neither it can read command line arguments.  The calculations can be only
performed in the interactive mode.

.SH AUTHOR
Oleg Skoromnik <olegskor@gmail.com>

.SH LICENSE
Copyright 2018 Oleg Skoromnik

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
